Lastly, I want to highlight permacomputing. An emerging technological concept inspired by counter-culture agricultural movements. Interweaving anti-industrial principles with technological awareness to manifest a meaningful and sustainable place for computational systems. [25] Permacomputing practices seek to move across old and new media technology. Highlighting the reutilisation of aged technologies without nostalgic fetishisation. Technological criticality arises from the awareness that there has never been a *'good time'* for technology. It still needs to be established. 



*'In practice, permacomputing exists as two intertwined strands: first, an incentive to reuse and repurpose existing computer technology and materials to create new works; and second, a list of continuously evolving design principles, to guide that very reuse and repurposing, but also to inform the development of new software and hardware when reuse and repurposing are not possible or relevant'* [26]



Forumistic.blog roots itself in permacomputing principles. Inspired by their environmental reflection on computational technology, I reutilised forgotten hardware laying dormant in unused systems. Breaking open my first Hewlett and Packard device and reappropriating parts to generate a new computational machine. Above all it's their instruction of *'observe and interact'* that gave clear insight into a healthy technological ecosystem. '*You should not expect your garden to be easily top-down controllable like an army unit but accept its quickness and adapt to it.'* [27] Over-controlling computational systems leads to the decay of electronic devices. Comprehending when to hack or sit back initiates bidirectional relations. Emphasising the differentiation between examination and observation. Equally significant is the manufacturers responsibility to facilitate this healthy relationship. Their inability to create tangible systems facilitates technology's incomprehension. Users should be capable of observing device's internal hardware to foster a technological safe space. Calling for the destruction of maximalist techno-aesthetic machine.
*'The more distraction there is, the more the ICT industry can offer dysfunctional but very attractive technical solutions to problems that are really political or economic in nature.\'92*  <a href=\'93PERMACOMPUTING AESTHETICS\'94 target=\'93\'94_blank> [26]</a>


Permacomputing acknowledges a double-edged sword present in technological criticality. One forged by the same systems of production and consumption it seeks to reprimand. Electronic criticism is unable to escape modern tools, facilitating the creation of computational alternatives. It emphasises this research's mechanical paradox. Simultaneous theoretical and practical exploration made it unattainable to critique modern devices without the usage of one. Forever binding this critical technological inquiry to my late 2015 MacBook. 
---
[25] https://permacomputingasapracticefordigitalgraphicdesign.com/#item2[26] Permacomputing aesthetics https://monoskop.org/Permacomputing_Aesthetics[27] permacomputing http://viznut.fi/texts-en/permacomputing.html} 
